This CodeBook describes the output generated by the script run_analysis.R as well as all the transformation the data underwent
before reaching the final state.

Background
This script (run_analysis.R)  process data  created by the Human Activity Recognition Experiment by the Università degli Studi di Genova, Genoa. The authors built a database from the recordings of 30 subjects performing activities of daily living (ADL) while carrying a waist-mounted smartphone with embedded inertial sensors. For more information regarding the data set visit 

Transformations:
The measurement data was provided for 2 data sets (test and train) the data for each one of those sets was broken into 3 files (Subject, Activity and Measurement. The first transformation applied to the data was to merge those 3 files to end up with a data frame for each data set. The next step was to combine those two sets (train and test) to end up with one dataframe that would contain all subject, activity and measuremets information.

Once that information was available the activity type needed to be decode since it was represented with an integer number from 1 to 6 . For that purpose the file with the activities label was loaded and integer values for activities were replaced with descriptive text (Walking, Sitting, etc.)

The names of the measurements had to be cleaned up as well. The names of all measurements were provided in a file but this file contained typos and characters that were not suitable to be used on the r programming language (parenthesis, commas, etc.) Using search and replace combined with the a function in R that translates any character string into suitable R names the names of the measurements were cleaned

Output Data:
The script produces the following columns in the oder they are described 
subjects:	unique identifier for the subject performing the activity. Valid values are 1 to 30. This columns was originally found in the 
          subject_train.txt and subject_test.txt files
activity_description: This a decription of the acitvity being performed by the subject. Possible values are:
          WALKING
          WALKING_UPSTAIRS
          WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS
          SITTING
          STANDING
          LAYING
tBodyAcc.mean.X	time domain signal representing the mean of : mean body acceleration on X axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyAcc.mean.Y	time domain signal representing the mean of : mean body acceleration on Y axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyAcc.mean.Z	time domain signal representing the mean of : mean body acceleration on Z axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyAcc.std.X	time domain signal representing the mean of : standar deviation of body acceleration on X axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyAcc.std.Y	time domain signal representing the mean of : standar deviation of body acceleration on Y axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyAcc.std.Z	time domain signal representing the mean of : standar deviation of body acceleration on Z axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tGravityAcc.mean.X	time domain signal representing the mean of :  mean of body gravity acceleration on X axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tGravityAcc.mean.Y	time domain signal representing the mean of :  mean of body gravity acceleration on Y axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tGravityAcc.mean.Z	time domain signal representing the mean of :  mean of body gravity acceleration on Z axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tGravityAcc.std.X	time domain signal representing the mean of :  standard deviation of body gravity acceleration on X axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tGravityAcc.std.Y	time domain signal representing the mean of :  standard deviation of body gravity acceleration on Y axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tGravityAcc.std.Z	time domain signal representing the mean of :  standard deviation of body gravity acceleration on Z axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyAccJerk.mean.X	time domain signal representing the mean of : mean body linear acceleration on X axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyAccJerk.mean.Y	time domain signal representing the mean of : mean body linear acceleration on Y axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyAccJerk.mean.Z	time domain signal representing the mean of : mean body linear acceleration on Z axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyAccJerk.std.X	time domain signal representing the mean of : standard deviation of body linear acceleration on X axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyAccJerk.std.Y	time domain signal representing the mean of : standard deviation of body linear acceleration on Y axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyAccJerk.std.Z	time domain signal representing the mean of : standard deviation of body linear acceleration on Z axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyGyro.mean.X	time domain signal representing the mean of : mean body angular velocity on X axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyGyro.mean.Y	time domain signal representing the mean of : mean body angular velocity on Y axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyGyro.mean.Z	time domain signal representing the mean of : mean body angular velocity on Z axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyGyro.std.X	time domain signal representing the mean of : standard deviation of body angular velocity on X axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyGyro.std.Y	time domain signal representing the mean of : standard deviation of body angular velocity on Y axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyGyro.std.Z	time domain signal representing the mean of : standard deviation of body angular velocity on Z axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyGyroJerk.mean.X	time domain signal representing the mean of : mean body angular velocity on X axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyGyroJerk.mean.Y	time domain signal representing the mean of : mean body angular velocity on Y axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyGyroJerk.mean.Z	time domain signal representing the mean of : mean body angular velocity on Z axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyGyroJerk.std.X	time domain signal representing the mean of : standard deviation of body angular velocity on X axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyGyroJerk.std.Y	time domain signal representing the mean of : standard deviation of body angular velocity on Y axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyGyroJerk.std.Z	time domain signal representing the mean of : standard deviation of body angular velocity on Z axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyAccMag.mean	time domain signal representing the mean of : mean of body acceleration using eucledian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyAccMag.std	time domain signal representing the mean of : standar deviation of body acceleration using eucledian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
tGravityAccMag.mean	time domain signal representing the mean of :  mean of body gravity acceleration using eucledian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
tGravityAccMag.std	time domain signal representing the mean of :  standard deviaation of body gravity acceleration using eucledian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyAccJerkMag.mean	time domain signal representing the mean of : mean body linear accelerationusing eucleadian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyAccJerkMag.std	time domain signal representing the mean of : standart deviation of body linear accelerationusing eucleadian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyGyroMag.mean	time domain signal representing the mean of : mean body angular velocity using eucledian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyGyroMag.std	time domain signal representing the mean of : standar deviation of body angular velocity using eucledian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyGyroJerkMag.mean	time domain signal representing the mean of : mean body angular velocity using euclidian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
tBodyGyroJerkMag.std	time domain signal representing the mean of : standard deviation body angular velocity using euclidian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAcc.mean.X	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : Fast Fourier Transform of mean body acceleration on X axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAcc.mean.Y	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : Fast Fourier Transform of mean body acceleration on Y axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAcc.mean.Z	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : Fast Fourier Transform of mean body acceleration on Z axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAcc.std.X	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : Fast Fourier Transform of std body acceleration on X axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAcc.std.Y	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : Fast Fourier Transform of std body acceleration on Y axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAcc.std.Z	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : Fast Fourier Transform of std body acceleration on Z axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAcc.meanFreq.X	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : Fast Fourier Transform of mean body acceleration on X axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAcc.meanFreq.Y	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : Fast Fourier Transform of mean body acceleration on Y axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAcc.meanFreq.Z	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : Fast Fourier Transform of mean body acceleration on Z axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAccJerk.mean.X	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : mean body linear acceleration on X axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAccJerk.mean.Y	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : mean body linear acceleration on Y axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAccJerk.mean.Z	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : mean body linear acceleration on Z axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAccJerk.std.X	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : standard deviation of body linear acceleration on X axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAccJerk.std.Y	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : standard deviation of body linear acceleration on Y axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAccJerk.std.Z	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : standard deviation of body linear acceleration on Z axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAccJerk.meanFreq.X	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : mean body linear acceleration on X axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAccJerk.meanFreq.Y	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : mean body linear acceleration on Y axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAccJerk.meanFreq.Z	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : mean body linear acceleration on Z axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyGyro.mean.X	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : mean body angular velocity on X axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyGyro.mean.Y	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : mean body angular velocity on Y axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyGyro.mean.Z	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : mean body angular velocity on Z axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyGyro.std.X	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : standard deviation of body angular velocity on X axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyGyro.std.Y	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : standard deviation of body angular velocity on Y axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyGyro.std.Z	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : standard deviation of body angular velocity on Z axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyGyro.meanFreq.X	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : mean body angular velocity on X axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyGyro.meanFreq.Y	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : mean body angular velocity on Y axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyGyro.meanFreq.Z	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : mean body angular velocity on Z axis. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAccMag.mean	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : mean of body acceleration using eucledian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAccMag.std	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : standar deviation of body acceleration using eucledian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyAccMag.meanFreq	frequency domain signal representing the mean of :  mean of body gravity acceleration using eucledian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.mean	frequency domain signal representing the mean of :  standard deviaation of body gravity acceleration using eucledian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.std	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : mean body linear accelerationusing eucleadian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.meanFreq	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : standart deviation of body linear accelerationusing eucleadian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyBodyGyroMag.mean	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : mean body angular velocity using eucledian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyBodyGyroMag.std	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : standar deviation of body angular velocity using eucledian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyBodyGyroMag.meanFreq	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : mean body angular velocity using euclidian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.mean	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : standard deviation body angular velocity using euclidian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.std	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : mean body angular velocity using euclidian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1
fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.meanFreq	frequency domain signal representing the mean of : standard deviation body angular velocity using euclidian norm. Possible values are -1 to 1



